---
layout: page
title: About Michael Purdy
permalink: /about/
---

There could be better uses for this space. I think that these *about me* pages on websites are like ingredients lists on food packaging. Some time ago, we all agreed that they are necessary, but I don’t know why anyone would read them. Perhaps this page could be telling a story about a girl with magic sneakers who must conquer a mountain of mixed-up vampires who only drink strawberry syrup.

But until I have time to write that story, I suppose I’ll tell you my name is Michael Purdy and I do not like strawberry syrup. I spend my time making websites for a university and hopefully making them more accessible. I have marketing and design experience in many industries, including financial services, education, retail, hospitality, and education. After twelve years in small ad agencies, I made a move to higher education. I could not be happier.

I like to build things. I like to grow flowers and weeds. And I like to write–usually for this blog. The most recent thing I wrote for this blog was {% for post in site.posts offset: 0 limit: 1  %}<a href="{{ post.url }}"><em>{{ post.title }}</em></a>{% endfor %}. Some day I hope to design some food packaging so I can sneak a fantasy story into the ingredients list.


### About This Site

Sometimes making web sites for everyone means making sure the content is available in a variety of formats. So, if HTML isn’t working for you and you need it in [XML](/feed.xml), you got it. If you need it in [JSON](/feed.json), you got that too.

If you find an accessibility problem with this site, I’d love to hear about it so I can make it better. Email me at <mail@pikemurdy.com>.

### Under the Hood

The site is flat HTML that has been generated by [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com) and hosted at GitHub. It was coded by hand, with love. 

To contact the me, email <mail@pikemurdy.com>

<iframe src="https://duckduckgo.com/search.html?site=michaelpurdy.org&prefill=Search MichaelPurdy.org" style="overflow:hidden;margin:0;padding:0;width:100%;height:40px;" frameborder="0" title="Search Site">Search with <a href="http://duckduckgo.com">DuckDuckGo.com</a></iframe>
